So what are we actually seeing here?
We're seeing three different areas within the
application, one showing the spaces,
one showing the memory allocation and some other information that's going
on, and then one showing this histogram, showing some of the thresholds to
do with when objects move from space to space.
If we simplify this scenario and take a look, first of all, at the spaces.
So here, we can see the memory allocation as it's happening. And we see
that in the Eden space, the memory is slowly rising, so the amount of
memory allocated there is slowly rising.
And currently, the S0 space, so the S0 survivor space is full.
What we'll see is as the memory Eden space increases and finally
hits its threshold, then the garbage collector will run, the GC
will happen, SE will become empty, S1 will become full, and the
Eden space will go back to 0.
And that happens now. And note this is while at the same time,
we've allocated a lot more objects into the old space. So
the old space is nearing its threshold.
And the next time you run a GC in the young space when the
Eden space is full again, we should see the old space being
garbage‑collected as well.
So what else do we see?
So if we take a look at the histograms,
these are showing us the objects that have survived a garbage
collect and the number of garbage collects they survived. So in this
case, because the garbage collect was self‑modifying, we only have
objects that survive a single garbage collection before they've be
moved off into old space.
And then, finally, the graphs themselves.
So this shows the ongoing graph of memory allocation inside the VM.
And we can see here where the garbage collector has run and reduced
the memory in Eden space almost to 0, memory,
then, being allocated further and further into Eden space,
and eventually Eden space will fill.
And when it does fill, we'll see the garbage collector running again,
reducing its space to zero, and we'll see the survivor space is flipping over.
So there we go.
The garbage collector has run. Survivor spaces are flipped. Notice as
well there's a kink there inside the old generation.
This is where the memory that survived these garbage collects has
been moved out into old generation. So the amount of memory inside
the old generation has also increased.
And eventually,
one of two things will happen to the old generation. When
another garbage collection happens, if we haven't reached the
maximum size of the old generation,
we'll allocate more memory in there, and we move objects into
there. If we have reached the maximum size of the old generation, then the old GC garbage collector will run.